Updating Docs (#36)
zenodo/developers.zenodo.org: source/includes/oai-pmh/_root.md

`https://zenodo.org/oai2d`

## First steps with Sickle

```python
# Install the Sickle package using pip
pip install Sickle
```

```python
# Import Sickle and initialize the client by passing the base URL
>>> from sickle import Sickle
>>> sickle = Sickle('https://zenodo.org/oai2d')
```

> ## Get information about the OAI-PMH API

Author: I would point this out: https://github.com/zenodo/developers.zenodo.org/pull/36/#discussion_r592413185

`https://zenodo.org/oai2d`

> ## First steps with Sickle

Reviewer: Since we don't necessarily "recommend" Sickle (or Python) for harvesting the OAI-PMH API, I would just include the Python examples in the code blocks (i.e. nothing added in the Markdown "text" left side). 

Any needed text can be written in Python comments.

In order to better understand the capabilities of OAI let’s do some harvesting using a tool called ```Sickle```. 

> Let's first install the ```Sickle``` package using ```pip```:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's first install the `Sickle` package using `pip`:
```

Not needed for this PR (since this text will be a comment in the Python codeblock), but FYI, for "inline" monospace text single backticks work the same.

```python
pip install Sickle
```

> After that you'll be able to import ```Sickle``` and initialize the connection by passing the ```Base URL```.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After that, you'll be able to import ```Sickle``` and initialize the client by passing the base URL.
```

```python
>>> from sickle import Sickle
>>> sickle = Sickle('https://zenodo.org/oai2d')
```

## Get information about the OAI-PMH API

In order to get information on the OAI-PMH API we can use the module ```Identify()``` from ```Sickle```.
Identify lets us knwo multiple aprameters such as:

In order to get information on the OAI-PMH API, we can use the ```Identify``` verb from ```Sickle```. ```Identify``` returns information about the repository such as:

* ```adminEmail```
* ```baseURL```
* ```deletedRecord```
* ```earliestDatestamp```
* ```granularity```
* ```protocolVersion```
* ```raw```
* ```repositoryName```

> * ```xml```

Reviewer: In general, I would avoid documenting Sickle or OAI-PMH features here (since the Sickle docs do a much better job at that). Let's assume users that are at least partially familiar with the OAI-PMH spec, and just showcase what an experienced user might do.

The OAI-PMH API is rated limited like the REST API - i.e. you will receive
a ``429 Too Many Requests`` HTTP error if you exceed the limit.

> For more information please take a look at the [rate limiting documentation](https://developers.zenodo.org/#rate-limiting).

Author: Ah! This is a good one!

## Metadata formats

> ```python

Reviewer 2: Again I think it would be nice to see the [protocol](http://www.openarchives.org/OAI/openarchivesprotocol.html#ListMetadataFormats) mentioned  or partially explained in the text segment. Maybe add something like: "you can list the following formats via:" since we are then analyzing them underneath.

## Metadata formats

Metadata for each record is available in several formats. In order to consult them you can just do:

```python

> >>> metadataFormats = sickle.ListMetadataFormats()
> >>> metadataFormats.next()
> <MetadataFormat marcxml>
> 
> >>> metadataFormats.next()
> <MetadataFormat oai_datacite4>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>>> metadataFormats = sickle.ListMetadataFormats()
>>> list(metadataFormats)
[<MetadataFormat marcxml>, <MetadataFormat oai_datacite4>, ...] 
```

harvesting_ of communities.

### Entire repository

[See example](https://zenodo.org/oai2d?verb=ListRecords&

> metadataPrefix=oai_datacite)

Reviewer 2: We should also have a banner informing them and pointing to the rate limit.
Could be addressed in a separate PR.

```python
# Harvest the entire repository making an OAI-PMH request
>>> records = sickle.ListRecords(metadataPrefix='oai_dc')
>>> record = records.next()
<Record oai:zenodo.org:3442216>

# ...<access some attributes>
>>> record.id
...

> >>> record.title  # not sure if this attribute exists

Reviewer 2: leftover?

harvesting_ of communities.

### Entire repository

In order to harvest the entire repository you make an OAI-PMH request without
passing any set specification.

[See example](https://zenodo.org/oai2d?verb=ListRecords&
metadataPrefix=oai_datacite)

```python
>>> records = sickle.ListRecords(metadataPrefix='oai_dc')

> >>> records.next()
> <Record oai:zenodo.org:3442216>
> 
> >>> records.next()
> <Record oai:zenodo.org:3442171>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>>> record = records.next()
<Record oai:zenodo.org:3442216>

# ...<access some attributes>
>>> record.id
...
>>> record.title  # not sure if this attribute exists
...
```

[See example](https://zenodo.org/oai2d?verb=ListRecords&
metadataPrefix=oai_datacite&set=user-cfa)

```python
# Fetch a couple of records from the OAI Set of the "cfa" community
>>> records = sickle.ListRecords(metadataPrefix='oai_dc', set='user-cfa')
>>> record = records.next()

# To inspect on what sets a record is in
>>> record.header.setSpecs

> <...>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[<Set user-cfa>, <Set software>]  # not sure if this is what's displayed, so check the output
```
I would add explicit examples here, otherwise there's nothing to show.

Author: Makes sense!

```

### Harvesting with a different metadata format
There is also the possibility of using different metadata formats. For that, we only need to replace the `metadataPrefix` argument.

[See example](https://zenodo.org/oai2d?verb=ListRecords&
metadataPrefix=marc21&set=user-cfa)

```python
# Community harvest using "marc21" metadata format

> >>> records = sickle.ListRecords(metadataPrefix='marc21', set='user-cfa')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>>> records = sickle.ListRecords(metadataPrefix='oai_datacite', set='user-cfa')
```

MARC21 is pretty old and should not be promoted, so something more modern like DataCite would be better.

>>> record = records.next()
>>> record.metadata

> <...>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<...>
```

I would provide a glimpse of what's available here, just to show that there's e.g. "title", "authors", "doi", etc.

```

### Harvesting with multiple filters
Using multiple filters to harvest records enables a higher level of granularity, allowing us to retrieve specific groups of records.

[See example](https://zenodo.org/oai2d?verb=ListRecords&
metadataPrefix=oai_datacite&set=user-cfa&from=%272019-01-01%27)

```python
# Selecting harvesting using "from"
records = sickle.ListRecords(**{

> 'metadataPrefix': 'oai_dc',
> 'set': 'user-cfa',
> 'from': '2019-01-01'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    'metadataPrefix': 'oai_dc',
    'set': 'user-cfa',
    'from': '2019-01-01',
```

All code examples should be nicely formatted.

[See example](https://zenodo.org/oai2d?verb=ListRecords&
metadataPrefix=oai_datacite&set=user-cfa)

```python
# Fetch a couple of records from the OAI Set of the "cfa" community
>>> records = sickle.ListRecords(metadataPrefix='oai_dc', set='user-cfa')
>>> record = records.next()

# To inspect on what sets a record is in
>>> record.header.setSpecs
['openaire_data', 'user-cfa']
```

### Harvesting with a different metadata format
There is also the possibility of using different metadata formats. For that, we only need to replace the `metadataPrefix` argument.

[See example](https://zenodo.org/oai2d?verb=ListRecords&
metadataPrefix=oai_datacite&set=user-cfa)

```python
# Community harvest using "oai_datacite" metadata format
>>> records = sickle.ListRecords(metadataPrefix='oai_datacite', set='user-cfa')
>>> record = records.next()

# Retrieving metadata from the record

> >>> record.metadata['title']
> ['Computing and Using Metrics in ADS']

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>>> record.metadata
{
    "title": ["Computing and Using Metrics in ADS"],
    "creatorName": ["Henneken, Edwin"],
    "identifier": ["10.5281/zenodo.10897"],
    ...
}
```

I would do something like this for compactness.

>>> record.metadata['creatorName']
['Henneken, Edwin']

>>> record.metadata['identifier']
['10.5281/zenodo.10897']
```

### Harvesting with multiple filters

> Using multiple filters to harvest records enables a higher level of granularity, allowing us to retrieve specific groups of records.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Using multiple filters to harvest records enables a higher level of granularity, allowing us to retrieve specific groups of records.
```

Newline after titles :) You can also add something like [a Markdown linter](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=DavidAnson.vscode-markdownlint) in your editor which helps to catch these.

Author: Thank you for the suggestion!

[See example](https://zenodo.org/oai2d?verb=ListRecords&
metadataPrefix=oai_datacite&set=user-cfa)

> 

Reviewer 2: I think all these sections could use a brief text under the title describing the case.

```python
# Fetch a couple of records from the OAI Set of the "cfa" community
>>> records = sickle.ListRecords(metadataPrefix='oai_dc', set='user-cfa')
>>> record = records.next()

> >>> record.sets  # ...or whatever one can do to inspect what sets a record is in

Reviewer 2: leftover?

```

### Harvesting with a different metadata format

```python
# Community harvest using "marc21" metadata format
>>> records = sickle.ListRecords(metadataPrefix='marc21', set='user-cfa')
>>> record = records.next()

> >>> record.raw  # ...or whatever showcases the metadata format

Reviewer 2: leftover?

<...>
```

> ### Even more selective harvesting

Reviewer 2: Maybe the title could be more informative if it was something like 'harvesting with multiple filters'.

```python
# Selecting harvesting using "from"

> records = sickle.ListRecords(**{'metadataPrefix': 'oai_dc', 'set': 'user-cfa', 'from': '2019-01-01' })

Reviewer 2: Could you maybe skip the unpacking here?

Reviewer: I think it's not possible actually since `from` is a Python keyword... ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

records.next()
<Record oai:zenodo.org:7661>

records.next()
<Record oai:zenodo.org:6738>
```

### Other questions on harvesting

> If you need selective harvesting and your use case is not supported by above

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you need selective harvesting and your use case is not supported by the above
```

> sets, please [contact us](http://about.zenodo.org/contact/) and we may possible

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sets, you can [contact us](http://about.zenodo.org/contact/) and we can try
```

Reviewer: I would point to the support form actually, i.e. <https://zenodo.org/support>

> create a specific set for you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to find a fitting solution.
```

provides a direct harvesting API link on their front-page, which includes the
correct community identifier.

Fetch a couple of records from the OAI Set of the ```cfa``` community:

[See example](https://zenodo.org/oai2d?verb=ListRecords&
metadataPrefix=oai_datacite&set=user-cfa)

```python
>>> records = sickle.ListRecords(metadataPrefix='oai_dc', set='user-cfa')

> >>> records.next()
> <Record oai:zenodo.org:7661>
> 
> >>> records.next()
> <Record oai:zenodo.org:6738>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>>> record = records.next()
>>> record.sets  # ...or whatever one can do to inspect what sets a record is in
```

```

### Harvesting with a different metadata format
It is possible to harvest using multiple metadata formats. A community harvest using ```marc21``` metadata format is presented:

```python
>>> records = sickle.ListRecords(metadataPrefix='marc21', set='user-cfa')

> >>> records.next()
> <Record oai:zenodo.org:7661>
> 
> >>> records.next()
> <Record oai:zenodo.org:6738>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>>> record = records.next()
>>> record.raw  # ...or whatever showcases the metadata format
<...>
```
